# FeynmanHs

This Haskell project generates Feynman diagrams given a number of external sources, vertices and "legs" per vertex.

Most equivalent diagrams are removed from the result, but some symmetries are not accounted for, so manual review of the results is required.

The code was written to check my answers for a homework exercise in my QFT course, and currently only considers very simple Feynman diagrams, since that is all the course provided me with at the time of writing this code. The Feynman diagrams that are generated by this code are the Feynman diagrams that one can find in chapter 9 of Srednicki's *Quantum Field Theory* (2007).

This is also my first proper project in Haskell, so it is probably not thoroughly optimised, and there are certainly some mistakes in my commit history. But I am happy with the end result (which is why I made the project public).

## Usage

To use FeynmanHS, you are required to install Cabal. Then, by running `cabal repl` in the project's root directory, the scripts are compiled.

To then generate the Feynman diagrams, run `feynmanGenerate E V #legs`, with `E` the number of external sources, `V` the number of vertices, and `#legs` the number of line segments connected to each vertex.

The output is given as a `Graph`. `Graph`s are lists of pairs of sources and vertices. Each pair, connecting vertices and sources, is a propagator. For example, if E=2, V=0, the (only) Feynman diagram is given by `Graph [(Source, Source)]`, which means that there is a single propagator connecting two sources. If, on the other hand, we choose E=1, V=1 with #legs=3, we would find the diagram `Graph [(Source, Vertex "1"), (Vertex "1", Vertex "1")]`, which means that the single source is connected to vertex `"1"`, and the two remaining legs of the vertex are connected to each other.

## Limitations

As noted earlier, not all symmetries are removed from the output of `feynmanGenerate`. The symmetries that _are_ removed are:

1. Interchangeability of external sources: external sources are 'equal' to one another, reflected by the fact that `Source` is nameless, as opposed to `Vertex {name}`.
2. Permutations: `Graph`s whose lists are permutations of one another should be equivalent, since the order of the propagators should not matter.

Symmetries that are not removed include the interchangeability of vertices: completely interchanging the propagators connected to each vertex (effectively swapping the vertices in the graph) should not produce a different graph. In the future, this symmetry may be included.

To make sure all symmetries are removed, one should do a manual review of the output.